0:<Hi Lisa -- CEDAW is an interesting document and it is true that one of the main reasons it has not yet been ratified is because of the abortion issue. During a past internship  I went to Congress to lobby for CEDAW and after a whole bunch of talk, I was asked what the stance was on abortion- showing of course, that this representative was not so familiar with the document itself. Anyway, the stance is technically neutral. The document itself is silent on the issue, but these reports you mention have made ratification difficult. :(  Why must these things relating to women always turn out to be so controversial!>
1:<Wow. That's unbelievable.
In India and Bangladesh (and countries nearby), arranged marriage is still very common. Many women marry young (very frequently) to someone that is almost twice as old. In countries like Bangladesh and many Muslim countries that still allow polygamy, women's rights are devalued too... :(>
2:<It was really interesting to hear Helen talk about how human rights don't exist in the way we think they do/ought to. They are an idea or ideal, and if one doesn't know about them, one doesn't have them. However, once a person does learn that they have rights, they come to expect them (in the home, community, from the government). Which is a very empowering thing. 

Regarding the Convention on the Rights of the Child, I found it heartbreaking when Helen was talking about how much more vulnerable female children are than male children (although both are extremely vulnerable, being children), stating that in some countries female children were only valued if they could provide labor, or generate income by selling sex or pleasing family members. 

As for the United States not signing onto CEDAW or CRC, this is absolutely preposterous. Talk about a double sided coin! Sure the U.S. can dictate to other countries what they ought to be doing, yet no one has the right to reciprocate to the U.S... Helen hits the nail on the head in her description of the U.S. far-right, and their overly conservative outlook on the family unit/family planning/ and most importantly a woman's right to choose (or should I say lack thereof). The United States has definitely taken a step or two backwards when it comes to women's reproductive rights. :(>
3:<Horrible! :( I hope the president won't sign it. Does anyone know of an online petition that kindly asks him to not to sign it? Does e.g., Amnesty or some other similar organization have one?>
4:<As for the culture argument, I think it's important to remember that no culture has ever been the same throughout history. Every culture changes and cultures are not static objects that exists as closed entities in space. They change because the people practicing the cultures change. And other parts of cultures are already changing; like the fact that you can get coca cola virtually everywhere, or that you use a car to get around, that we use cell phones to communicate, and the list goes on and on. So I believe that the culture argument does not end the discussion. Perhaps it should rather be a question of "how" one changes certain aspects of a culture. You could also argue that patriarchy is a culture. I'm from Sweden and we also have problems with victim blaming when it comes to rape, men's violence against women kill hundreds and hurt thousands every year, among many other things. These stories are not unique to Sweden and they are sadly universal :(>
5:<same here, it's not there :(>
6:<I've got the same problem :-(>
